chore: Ruby agent: 8.7.0 Release (#7233)
newrelic/docs-website: src/content/docs/apm/agents/ruby-agent/api-guides/ruby-custom-instrumentation.mdx

  - /docs/agents/ruby-agent/customization
---

> The New Relic Ruby agent automatically collects many metrics. It also includes an API you can use to collect additional metrics about your application. If you see large **Application Code** segments in transaction trace details, custom instrumentation can give a more complete picture of what is going on in your application. For details about all available API methods, please see our [api documentation](https://www.rubydoc.info/gems/newrelic_rpm).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The New Relic Ruby agent automatically collects many metrics. It also includes an API you can use to collect additional metrics about your application. If you see large **Application Code** segments in transaction trace details, custom instrumentation can give a more complete picture of what is going on in your application. For details about all available API methods, please see our [Ruby agent API documentation](https://www.rubydoc.info/gems/newrelic_rpm).
```

Tweaking the link text to make it a little more accessible.

end
```

> `add_method_tracer` takes an optional metric name and a hash of options. For more information, see [add_method_tracer in the New Relic RubyDoc](https://www.rubydoc.info/gems/newrelic_rpm/NewRelic/Agent/MethodTracer/ClassMethods#add_method_tracer-instance_method) .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`add_method_tracer` takes an optional metric name and a hash of options. For more information, see [add_method_tracer in the New Relic RubyDoc](https://www.rubydoc.info/gems/newrelic_rpm/NewRelic/Agent/MethodTracer/ClassMethods#add_method_tracer-instance_method).
```

end
```

> For more information, see [add_method_tracer in the New Relic RubyDoc](https://www.rubydoc.info/gems/newrelic_rpm/NewRelic/Agent/MethodTracer#trace_execution_scoped-instance_method) .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, see [add_method_tracer in the New Relic RubyDoc](https://www.rubydoc.info/gems/newrelic_rpm/NewRelic/Agent/MethodTracer#trace_execution_scoped-instance_method).
```

end
```

For more information, see [Tracer#start_transaction_or_segment in the New Relic RubyDoc](https://www.rubydoc.info/gems/newrelic_rpm/NewRelic/Agent/Tracer#start_transaction_or_segment-class_method).

### Instrumenting Threads

> To support applications that want to control which threads are instrumented by New Relic, a class is available in 8.7.0 and above, `NewRelic::TracedThread`, that will create a thread that includes New Relic instrumentation. 
> Use this class as a replacement for the native Thread class. Please see our [API documentation](https://www.rubydoc.info/gems/newrelic_rpm/NewRelic/TracedThread) for more details. 
> ```
>   NewRelic::TracedThread.new do 
>     # custom code to run inside of the thread
>   end
> 
> ```
> To have the agent automatically instrument all threads, please see the configuration `instrumentation.thread.tracing` [documentation](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/apm/agents/ruby-agent/configuration/ruby-agent-configuration/#instrumentation).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In 8.7.0 and higher, use the class `NewRelic::TracedThread` in applications to create threads that are instrumented by New Relic.

Use this class as a replacement for the native `Thread` class. See our [TracedThread API documentation](https://www.rubydoc.info/gems/newrelic_rpm/NewRelic/TracedThread) for more detail. 

```
  NewRelic::TracedThread.new do 
    # custom code to run inside of the thread
  end

```

To automatically instrument all threads, see the [configuration `instrumentation.thread.tracing` documentation](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/apm/agents/ruby-agent/configuration/ruby-agent-configuration/#instrumentation).
```
